## Optimization Configuration File

The optimization configuration file (._cfg_) is required to run the Shape Optimization tool, as it serves as an input when 
calling the program.

### File structure

The structure of this file is as it follows:

- `DV_DICTIONARY`: defines the design variables to be used during the optimization. These will be latter cross-checked with
 the default DVs defined in the tool, and will differ between 2D and 3D cases.
 
    For 2D cases, the following DVs can be employed:
 `stagger, theta_in, theta_out, wedge_in, wedge_out, radius_in, radius_out, dist_1, dist_2, dist_3, dist_4`
 
    Similarly, for 3D cases these are the default DVs:
 `stagger, theta_in, theta_out, wedge_in, wedge_out, radius_in, radius_out, dist_1, dist_2, dist_3, dist_4, x_leading, 
 y_leading, z_leading, x_trailing, z_trailing, x_hub, z_hub, x_shroud, z_shroud`
 
 - `CASCADE_TYPE`: TBD
 
 - `SU2_CONFIG_FILE`: name of the SU2 configuration (._cfg_) file, which contains all the settings for the CFD calculations.
 
 - `BLADE_PAR_FILE`: name of the ParaBlade configuration (._cfg_) file, which contains the blade parameterisation information.
 
 - `BLADE_MATCH_FILE`: name of the blade matching file 
 
 - `N_PROCESSORS`: number of processors to be used for the CFD, adjoint and mesh deformation computations.
 
 - `N_DIM`: number of dimensions of the problem (either `2` or `3`)
 
 - `RESTART`: shape optimization restart option. Can be set to `True` or `False`. 
 
    If `True` is activated, the results from a previous run are needed, i.e. 
 the corresponding `./DESIGN/DSN_**` folders with the automatically-generated by a previous optimization run `.pickle` files.
 The tool will automatically read the results from previous steps (stored in the `.pickle` files) and continue with the optimization.
 
    If `False` is activated, the previous (if existent) `DESIGN` folder will be erased and the optimization will start from scratch. 
 
 - `OPERATION_TYPE`: defines the type of operation to be performed. The supported operations are: `FINITE_DIFFERENCE`,
  `SHAPE_OPTIMIZATION`, `DISCRETE_ADJOINT` or `PLOT_VALIDATION`
 
 - `OBJECTIVE_FUNCTION`: defines the objective function for the shape optimization problem. This is later cross-checked against
  the SU2 configuration file to check for consistency. Supported objective functions: `ENTROPY_GENERATION`, 
  `KINETIC_ENERGY_LOSS` or `TOTAL_PRESSURE_LOSS`
  
 - `OPT_RELAX_FAC`: relaxation factor to be used during the shape optimization problem (e.g. `0.01`)
 
 - `OPT_CONSTRAIN`: sets the constraint for the shape optimization problem. Only supports inequality constraints, which 
 can be defined in the following way: `FLOW_ANGLE_OUT < 70` or `FLOW_ANGLE_OUT > 70`. For unconstrained problems, it must
 be set to `NONE`.
 
 - `FIND_DIFF_STEP`: step to be used in the Finite Differences operation. Defined as a percentage (e.g `1`)
 
 - `FIND_DIFF_ORDER`: order of the finite differences to be used. It can be either `1` (1st order) or `2` (2nd order)
 


 
 